---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-04-16
published: true
labels:
  - E4
  - Learning
---

## 1. My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways: 
I am able to think of what JavaScript keywords to use to achieve the result that I want. I never used to know where to start, but at least now I can form the outline of the correct code. I also never used to know any JavaScript at all, so I've learned a lot about that in general. I am learning how to think simply, which makes it easier to put the instructions into code form.

## 2. I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:
I need to follow Professor Port's advice on thinking of things simply. I tend to over-complicate what needs to be done, making it much more difficult for myself. This also makes me doubt my programming abilities because I don't think I can come up with a complex solution when the real solution is very simple. 

## 3. I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:
I agree with this because the WODs help me check that I understand what I am doing. It is much different than typing what is done during lab without really paying attention to why it is done. I'm sure I can do them without copying the screencast. I only liked the screencast because I could double check and make sure that what I had done was right. Without the screencast, I realized that I just need to have more confidence in my abilities and that there are multiple ways to write code for the same objective, so my way should be good as long as it works.

## 4. The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:
I sort of agree with this. While the labs have helped me to learn, it was only the portions that explained the actual coding that were helpful. I found it hard to pay attention to the lecture details. I would not be able to complete the entire lab on my own. Completing the few lab steps that we were meant to do on our own was very hard and would take me hours to complete. I think it took me longer to absorb the information and apply it to the labs so soon after learning it in class.

## 5. I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:
I agree, Assignment 1 helped me feel more confident in my coding abilities. It also taught me how to troubleshoot using the console and ChatGPT. I feel like I am better at translating my instructions to achieve the objective into actual JavaScript that the computer understands. I think I am ready for Assignment 2 as long as I pay attention to Professor Port in lab when he explains how things work.

## 6. I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
It would be more engaging if the lecture wasn't primarily at the beginning of the class. My attention gets lost easily and I end up only listening when I hear that we are doing steps in the lab. I know the lecture is probably at the beginning because it gives us background information for the lab, so I'm not sure how it can be changed. 

## 7. What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):
The WODs help the most because they test our understanding and application of concepts that we've learned in class. The WODs force you to figure out how to understand things from the lab that might not have made sense. Discord as a resource to get in touch with Professor Port and the TAs helps a lot. Even if we don't ask the question ourselves, we can see solutions that other people might have been given to the same problem.

